1. Former astronaut Ellen Ochoa says that although she
doesn’t have a definite idea of when it might happen,
she _______ that humans will someday need to be
able to live in other environments than those found
on Earth. This conjecture informs her interest in
future research missions to the moon.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) demands
B) speculates
C) doubts
D) establishes

QUESTION 1
Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Ochoa’s prediction that humans will one day need to live in places
other than Earth. As used in this context, “speculates” would mean puts forward
an idea without firm evidence. The text states that Ochoa “doesn’t have a
definite idea” about when humans might need to live in other environments and
characterizes Ochoa’s prediction as a “conjecture,” or a conclusion presented
without convincing evidence. This context indicates that Ochoa speculates when
she makes this prediction.
Choice A is incorrect because saying that Ochoa “demands,” or insists or
requires, that humans will one day need to live in other environments than Earth’s
wouldn’t make sense in context. The text indicates that she’s unsure about
the timing but hypothesizes that it will someday happen. Choice C is incorrect
because saying that Ochoa “doubts,” or questions or disbelieves, that humans
will one day need to live in other environments than Earth’s wouldn’t make sense
in context. The text indicates that although Ochoa is unsure about the timing,
she hypothesizes that humans will need to live in places other than Earth and
encourages research into future travel to the moon. Choice D is incorrect because
saying that Ochoa “establishes,” or proves, that humans will one day need to
live in other environments than Earth’s wouldn’t make sense in context. Rather
than stating that Ochoa discusses her idea with certainty and supports it with
evidence, the text indicates that Ochoa is unsure about when humans might need
to live in other environments.

2.Beginning in the 1950s, Navajo Nation legislator
Annie Dodge Wauneka continuously worked to
promote public health; this _______ effort involved
traveling throughout the vast Navajo homeland
and writing a medical dictionary for speakers of
Diné bizaad, the Navajo language.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) impartial
B) offhand
C) persistent
D) mandatory

QUESTION 2
Choice C is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Annie Dodge Wauneka’s work as a Navajo Nation legislator. As used
in this context, “persistent” means existing continuously. The text states that
Wauneka “continuously worked to promote public health,” traveling extensively
and authoring a medical dictionary; this indicates that Wauneka’s effort was
persistent.
Choice A is incorrect because describing Wauneka’s effort related to public
health as “impartial,” or not partial or biased and treating all things equally,
wouldn’t make sense in context. The text suggests that Wauneka’s continuous
work was partial in one way, as she focused specifically on promoting public
health throughout the Navajo homeland and to speakers of the Navajo language.
Choice B is incorrect because the text emphasizes that Wauneka’s effort to
promote public health as a Navajo Nation legislator was continuous and extensive,
involving wide travels and the authoring of a medical dictionary. Because this
work clearly involved care and dedication, it wouldn’t make sense to describe it
as “offhand,” or casual and informal. Choice D is incorrect because nothing in the
text suggests that Wauneka’s effort to promote public health was “mandatory,”
or required by law or rule, even though Wauneka was a Navajo Nation legislator.
Rather than suggesting that Wauneka’s effort was required for any reason, the
text emphasizes the continuous and extensive nature of her work.

3. Following the principles of community-based
participatory research, tribal nations and research
institutions are equal partners in health studies
conducted on reservations. A collaboration between
the Crow Tribe and Montana State University _______ this model: tribal citizens worked alongside
scientists to design the methodology and continue to
assist in data collection.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) circumvents
B) eclipses
C) fabricates
D) exemplifies 

QUESTION 3
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of the collaboration between the Crow Tribe and Montana State
University. As used in this context, “exemplifies” means demonstrates. The text
conveys how the Crow Tribe–Montana State University collaboration serves to
illustrate the model of community-based participatory research introduced earlier
in the text and expanded on later in the text.
Choice A is incorrect because referring to “circumvents,” or avoids, wouldn’t make
sense in context. The text suggests that the Crow Tribe–Montana State University
collaboration serves as an example of the principles of community-based
participatory research, not that the collaboration evades this model. Choice B
is incorrect because referring to “eclipses,” or overshadows, wouldn’t make
sense in context. The text describes the Crow Tribe–Montana State University
collaboration as an equal partnership, which indicates that it’s an example of the
community-based participatory research model, not that it overshadows the
model. Choice C is incorrect because saying that the collaboration “fabricates,”
or creates, the model wouldn’t make sense in context. The text indicates that the
Crow Tribe–Montana State University collaboration serves as an example of the
model, not that it created the model.

4. The parasitic dodder plant increases its reproductive
success by flowering at the same time as the host
plant it has latched onto. In 2020, Jianqiang Wu and
his colleagues determined that the tiny dodder
achieves this _______ with its host by absorbing and
utilizing a protein the host produces when it is about
to flower.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) synchronization
B) hibernation
C) prediction
D) moderation 

QUESTION 4
Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of a relationship between the dodder plant and its host plant. As used
in this context, “synchronization” means the act of things happening at the same
time. The text indicates that the dodder and its host plant flower in unison and that
this synchronization occurs because the dodder makes use of a protein produced
by the host shortly before flowering.
Choice B is incorrect because referring to “hibernation,” or the state of being
dormant or inactive, wouldn’t make sense in context. The text focuses on
something the dodder plant actively engages in—making use of a protein and
producing flowers. Choice C is incorrect because stating that the dodder plant
and its host engage together in “prediction,” or the act of declaring or indicating
something in advance, wouldn’t make sense in context. Rather than indicating
that the dodder plant and its host plant make a prediction about flowering activity,
the text suggests that the host produces a protein as part of its regular flowering
process and that the dodder then absorbs and uses that protein to flower at the
same time. Choice D is incorrect because referring to “moderation,” or the act
of causing something to become less intense or extreme, wouldn’t make sense
in context. Although the text states that the dodder plant absorbs and uses a
protein made by its host plant, it doesn’t suggest that the dodder lessens the host
plant’s flowering activity; the two plants simply flower in unison.

5. Given that the conditions in binary star systems
should make planetary formation nearly impossible,
it’s not surprising that the existence of planets in
such systems has lacked _______ explanation.
Roman Rafikov and Kedron Silsbee shed light on
the subject when they used modeling to determine
a complex set of factors that could support
planets’ development.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) a discernible
B) a straightforward
C) an inconclusive
D) an unbiased 

QUESTION 5
Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
description of efforts to explain the existence of planets in binary star systems.
As used in this context, describing an explanation as “a straightforward” one
would mean that the explanation is direct and uncomplicated. The text asserts
that since it should be “nearly impossible” for planets to form in binary star
systems, it’s “not surprising” that there isn’t a straightforward explanation for
the existence of planets in such systems; the fact that one potential approach
involves “complex” factors offers further contextual support for this idea.
Choice A is incorrect because it would not make sense in context to say that
there isn’t “a discernible” explanation—meaning an explanation capable of being
perceived—for the existence of planets in binary star systems. The text discusses
just such an explanation offered by Roman Rafikov and Kedron Silsbee, which
indicates that their explanation can be discerned. Choice C is incorrect because
the text emphasizes how difficult it is to explain the existence of planets in
binary star systems, suggesting that the situation isn’t marked by the lack of “an
inconclusive” explanation—an explanation that does not resolve the issue—but
rather that if any explanations have been offered, they’ve likely been inconclusive
ones. Choice D is incorrect because nothing in the text suggests that there is a
lack of “an unbiased,” or impartial and unprejudiced, explanation for the existence
of planets in binary star systems. The text indicates that it’s difficult to explain the
existence of planets in such systems and it describes one attempt to do so, but
there is no evidence that explanations from Roman Rafikov and Kedron Silsbee or
others are biased.

6. Seminole/Muscogee director Sterlin Harjo _______ television’s tendency to situate Native
characters in the distant past: this rejection is evident
in his series Reservation Dogs, which revolves around
teenagers who dress in contemporary styles and
whose dialogue is laced with current slang.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) repudiates
B) proclaims
C) foretells
D) recants

QUESTION 6
Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Sterlin Harjo’s approach to representing Native characters on
television. As used in this context, “repudiates” means rejects or refuses to have
anything to do with. The text indicates that television shows tend to depict Native
characters as living long ago, but that Harjo’s series Reservation Dogs focuses
on Native teenagers in the present day, representing a “rejection” of the typical
approach to depicting Native characters. This context thus indicates that Harjo
repudiates television’s general tendency regarding Native characters.
Choice B is incorrect because the text describes Harjo’s “rejection” of the typical
approach to representing Native characters on television, so it wouldn’t make sense
to say that Harjo “proclaims,” or declares or affirms, television’s general tendency
regarding Native characters. Harjo is described as refusing to follow the pattern
of depicting Native characters in the distant past, not as proclaiming that pattern.
Choice C is incorrect because the text describes television’s tendency to represent
Native characters in the distant past as something that is already occurring, not
as something that Harjo “foretells,” or predicts will happen in the future. The text is
focused on Harjo’s “rejection” of this pattern, not on any predictions he may have
about it. Choice D is incorrect because saying that Harjo “recants” something would
mean that he withdraws a previously held belief, and it wouldn’t make sense to say
that Harjo recants television’s tendency to represent Native characters as living in
the past. No beliefs previously held by Harjo are mentioned. Additionally, a tendency
isn’t a belief and thus isn’t something that can be recanted.

7. In 2007, computer scientist Luis von Ahn was
working on converting printed books into a digital
format. He found that some words were distorted
enough that digital scanners couldn’t recognize
them, but most humans could easily read them.
Based on that finding, von Ahn invented a simple
security test to keep automated “bots” out of
websites. The first version of the reCAPTCHA test
asked users to type one known word and one of the
many words scanners couldn’t recognize. Correct
answers proved the users were humans and added
data to the book-digitizing project.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A) To discuss von Ahn’s invention of reCAPTCHA
B) To explain how digital scanners work
C) To call attention to von Ahn’s book-digitizing
project
D) To indicate how popular reCAPTCHA is 

QUESTION 7
Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately states the main purpose
of the text. After providing a brief introduction to computer scientist Luis von
Ahn, the text focuses on discussing how von Ahn’s digitization work led to the
invention of a digital security test known as reCAPTCHA.
Choice B is incorrect because the text doesn’t address how digital scanners
work. Choice C is incorrect. Although the text mentions von Ahn’s book-digitizing
project, that information is provided as a detail, not as the main purpose of the
text. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn’t provide any indication of
reCAPTCHA’s popularity; instead, it describes reCAPTCHA’s origin. 

8. The following text is from Edith Wharton’s 1905
novel The House of Mirth. Lily Bart and a companion
are walking through a park.
Lily had no real intimacy with nature, but she
had a passion for the appropriate and could be
keenly sensitive to a scene which was the fitting
background of her own sensations. The
landscape outspread below her seemed an
enlargement of her present mood, and she found
something of herself in its calmness, its breadth,
its long free reaches. On the nearer slopes the
sugar-maples wavered like pyres of light; lower
down was a massing of grey orchards, and here
and there the lingering green of an oak-grove.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A) It creates a detailed image of the physical setting
of the scene.
B) It establishes that a character is experiencing an
internal conflict.
C) It makes an assertion that the next sentence then
expands on.
D) It illustrates an idea that is introduced in the
previous sentence.

QUESTION 8
Choice D is the best answer because it best describes how the underlined
sentence functions in the text as a whole. The first sentence of the text establishes
that Lily can be “keenly sensitive to” scenes that serve as a “fitting background”
for her feelings—that is, she’s very aware of when a setting seems to reflect her
mood. The next sentence, which is underlined, then demonstrates this awareness:
Lily views the landscape she’s in as a large-scale reflection of her current
mood, identifying with elements such as its calmness. Thus, the function of the
underlined sentence is to illustrate an idea introduced in the previous sentence.
Choice A is incorrect because the underlined sentence describes the scene
only in very general terms, referring to its calmness, breadth, and long stretches
of land. It’s the next sentence that adds specific details about colors, light, and
various trees nearby. Choice B is incorrect because nothing in the underlined
sentence suggests that Lily is experiencing an internal conflict. In fact, the
sentence indicates that Lily thinks the landscape reflects her own feeling of
calmness. Choice C is incorrect because the only assertion in the underlined
sentence is that Lily feels that broad aspects of the landscape, such as its
calmness, reflect her current mood, and that assertion isn’t expanded on in the
next sentence. Instead, the next sentence describes specific details of the scene
without connecting them to Lily’s feelings.

A study by a team including finance professor
Madhu Veeraraghavan suggests that exposure to
sunshine during the workday can lead to overly
optimistic behavior. Using data spanning from 1994
to 2010 for a set of US companies, the team
compared over 29,000 annual earnings forecasts
to the actual earnings later reported by those
companies. The team found that the greater the
exposure to sunshine at work in the two weeks before
a manager submitted an earnings forecast, the more
the manager’s forecast exceeded what the company
actually earned that year.
Which choice best states the function of the
underlined sentence in the overall structure of the
text?
A) To summarize the results of the team’s analysis
B) To present a specific example that illustrates the
study’s findings
C) To explain part of the methodology used in the
team’s study
D) To call out a challenge the team faced in
conducting its analysis 

QUESTION 9
Choice C is the best answer because it best describes how the underlined
sentence functions in the text as a whole. The first sentence presents the
implications of Veeraraghavan’s team’s study: sunshine exposure during work
hours can cause overly optimistic behavior. The underlined sentence then
describes the data the team consulted and how they were used (comparing
predictions about earnings to what the companies actually earned), and the final
sentence presents what the team found in their examination of the data. Thus, the
underlined sentence mainly functions to explain part of the methodology used in
the team’s study.
Choice A is incorrect because the underlined sentence explains in part how the
team conducted their analysis of the effect of sunshine but doesn’t address what
the team found; a broad summary is instead given in the other two sentences.
Choice B is incorrect because the underlined sentence doesn’t present any
specific examples from the team’s comparisons of 29,000 earnings predictions to
actual earnings; it simply explains in part how the team conducted their analysis.
Choice D is incorrect because the underlined sentence simply explains in part
how the team conducted their analysis; the text never mentions any challenges
that the team encountered in their study.

10. The following text is adapted from Edith Nesbit’s
1906 novel The Railway Children. Mother did not spend all her time in paying dull
[visits] to dull ladies, and sitting dully at home
waiting for dull ladies to pay [visits] to her. She
was almost always there, ready to play with the
children, and read to them, and help them to do
their home-lessons. Besides this she used to write
stories for them while they were at school, and
read them aloud after tea, and she always made
up funny pieces of poetry for their birthdays and
for other great occasions.
According to the text, what is true about Mother?
A) She wishes that more ladies would visit her.
B) Birthdays are her favorite special occasion.
C) She creates stories and poems for her children.
D) Reading to her children is her favorite activity. 

QUESTION 10
Choice C is the best answer because it describes something that is true of
Mother, as presented in the text. The text indicates that in addition to other
activities, Mother writes stories for her children while they are at school and
makes up “funny pieces of poetry” for certain occasions.
Choice A is incorrect because the text suggests that Mother prefers to spend
her time with her children and doesn’t sit at home hoping that ladies will visit her.
Choice B is incorrect because the text says only that Mother makes up poetry
for the children’s birthdays, not that she likes birthdays more than other special
occasions. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn’t suggest that Mother
prefers reading to her children over the other activities she does with them, such
as playing with them and writing stories and poems for them

11. 11
The following text is from Maggie Pogue Johnson’s
1910 poem “Poet of Our Race.” In this poem, the
speaker is addressing Paul Laurence Dunbar, a Black
author.
Thou, with stroke of mighty pen,
 Hast told of joy and mirth,
And read the hearts and souls of men
As cradled from their birth.
The language of the flowers,
Thou hast read them all,
And e’en the little brook
 Responded to thy call.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A) To praise a certain writer for being especially
perceptive regarding people and nature
B) To establish that a certain writer has read
extensively about a variety of topics
C) To call attention to a certain writer’s careful and
elaborately detailed writing process
D) To recount fond memories of an afternoon spent
in nature with a certain writer

QUESTION 11
Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately states the main purpose
of the text. In the first part of the text, the speaker addresses Paul Laurence
Dunbar’s ability to understand people (he has “read the hearts and souls of men”
and written of their “joy and mirth”). In the second part of the text, the speaker
describes Dunbar’s thorough understanding of the natural world (he has read “the
language of the flowers” and engaged with “the little brook”). Thus, the text mainly
praises Dunbar for being especially perceptive about people and nature.
Choice B is incorrect because the speaker describes Dunbar as having read the
“hearts and souls of men” and the “language of flowers” to convey Dunbar’s ability
to comprehend people and nature, not to suggest that Dunbar has literally read
any of these things or has read a great deal about them. Choice C is incorrect
because the text notes how well Dunbar has made sense of the topics he’s written
about but doesn’t address any specific parts of Dunbar’s writing process beyond
the suggestion that he used a pen. Choice D is incorrect because the text focuses
on Dunbar’s understanding of people and nature as expressed in his writing.
Nothing in the text suggests that the speaker is recalling a particular afternoon
actually spent in nature with Dunbar; even if there had been a shared experience,
the text isn’t focused on reminiscing.

12. “To You” is an 1856 poem by Walt Whitman. In the
poem, Whitman suggests that readers, whom he
addresses directly, have not fully understood
themselves, writing, _______ Which quotation from “To You” most effectively
illustrates the claim?
A) “You have not known what you are, you have
slumber’d upon yourself / all your life, / Your
eyelids have been the same as closed most of the
time.”
B) “These immense meadows, these interminable
rivers, you are immense / and interminable as
they.”
C) “I should have made my way straight to you long
ago, / I should have blabb’d nothing but you, I
should have chanted nothing / but you.”
D) “I will leave all and come and make the hymns of
you, / None has understood you, but I
understand you.” 

QUESTION 12
Choice A is the best answer because it presents the quotation that most directly
illustrates the claim that Whitman’s poem suggests that its readers haven’t fully
understood themselves. This quotation makes that point directly by saying to
readers, “You have not known what you are.” The quotation goes on to reinforce
this point using a metaphor of sleep, saying that readers have “slumber’d” and
that their “eyelids have been the same as closed most of the time.”
Choice B is incorrect because this quotation doesn’t suggest that readers haven’t
fully understood themselves but instead characterizes readers as “immense”
and “interminable.” Although immense and interminable things can be difficult to
understand, this quotation doesn’t make that point. Choice C is incorrect because
this quotation doesn’t suggest that readers haven’t fully understood themselves
but instead conveys the speaker’s regret over not having celebrated readers
sooner. In fact, this quotation says nothing at all about readers themselves—it’s
focused solely on the speaker’s feelings about readers. Choice D is incorrect
because this quotation doesn’t suggest that readers haven’t fully understood
themselves; instead, this quotation makes the point that the speaker has
understood readers and is determined to create “hymns” about them. 


13. Born in 1891 to a Quechua-speaking family in the
Andes Mountains of Peru, Martín Chambi is today
considered to be one of the most renowned figures of
Latin American photography. In a paper for an art
history class, a student claims that Chambi’s
photographs have considerable ethnographic
value—in his work, Chambi was able to capture
diverse elements of Peruvian society, representing his
subjects with both dignity and authenticity.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
the student’s claim?
A) Chambi took many commissioned portraits of
wealthy Peruvians, but he also produced
hundreds of images carefully documenting the
peoples, sites, and customs of Indigenous
communities of the Andes.
B) Chambi’s photographs demonstrate a high level
of technical skill, as seen in his strategic use of
illumination to create dramatic light and shadow
contrasts.
C) During his lifetime, Chambi was known and
celebrated both within and outside his native
Peru, as his work was published in places like
Argentina, Spain, and Mexico.
D) Some of the peoples and places Chambi
photographed had long been popular subjects
for Peruvian photographers.

QUESTION 13
Choice A is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would
support the claim about Chambi’s photographs. The text describes a student
advancing the claim that Chambi’s photographs “have considerable ethnographic
value”—meaning that they are valuable as records of cultures—and that they
“capture diverse elements of Peruvian society” in a respectful way. If it’s true that
Chambi carefully photographed people from a range of different communities in
Peru as well as photographed the customs and sites of different communities,
that would lend support to the claim that the photographs have ethnographic
value as depictions of diverse elements of society in Peru.
Choice B is incorrect because the student’s claim is that Chambi’s photographs
have considerable ethnographic value because they depict diverse elements
of Peruvian society; the student doesn’t claim anything about the technical skill
demonstrated in the photographs. Choice C is incorrect because neither Chambi’s
reputation nor the locations where his photographs may have been published
would be relevant to the student’s claim that his photographs are valuable as an
ethnographic record of Peru’s diverse society. Choice D is incorrect because
the popularity among other photographers of the people and places that
Chambi photographed would be irrelevant to the student’s claim that Chambi’s
photographs are valuable as an ethnographic record of Peru’s diverse society

16. In the mountains of Brazil, Barbacenia tomentosa
and Barbacenia macrantha—two plants in the
Velloziaceae family—establish themselves on soilless,
nutrient-poor patches of quartzite rock. Plant
ecologists Anna Abrahão and Patricia de Britto Costa
used microscopic analysis to determine that the roots
of B. tomentosa and B. macrantha, which grow
directly into the quartzite, have clusters of fine hairs
near the root tip; further analysis indicated that these
hairs secrete both malic and citric acids. The
researchers hypothesize that the plants depend on
dissolving underlying rock with these acids, as the
process not only creates channels for continued
growth but also releases phosphates that provide the
vital nutrient phosphorus.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
the researchers’ hypothesis?
A) Other species in the Velloziaceae family are
found in terrains with more soil but have root
structures similar to those of B. tomentosa and
B. macrantha.
B) Though B. tomentosa and B. macrantha both
secrete citric and malic acids, each species
produces the acids in different proportions.
C) The roots of B. tomentosa and B. macrantha
carve new entry points into rocks even when
cracks in the surface are readily available.
D) B. tomentosa and B. macrantha thrive even when
transferred to the surfaces of rocks that do not
contain phosphates. 

QUESTION 16
Choice C is the best answer because it presents a finding that, if true, would
support the researchers’ hypothesis about the plants’ dependence on dissolving
rock. The text indicates that the roots of the two plant species grow directly into
quartzite rock, where hairs on the roots secrete acids that dissolve the rock.
The researchers hypothesize that the plants depend on this process because
dissolving rock opens spaces for the roots to grow and releases phosphates that
provide the plants with phosphorous, a vital nutrient. If the plants carry out this
process of dissolving rock even when the rock already has spaces into which
the roots could grow, that would support the researchers’ hypothesis because
it suggests that the plants are getting some advantage—such as access to
phosphorous—from the action of dissolving rock. If the plants don’t benefit from
dissolving rock, they would be expected to grow in the cracks that already exist,
as doing so would mean that the plants don’t have to spend energy creating and
secreting acids; if, however, the plants create new entry points by dissolving rock
even when cracks already exist, that would support the hypothesis that they
depend on dissolving rock for some benefit.
Choice A is incorrect because the existence of soil-inhabiting members of
the Velloziaceae family with similar root structures to those of the two species
discussed in the text wouldn’t support the researchers’ hypothesis that the species
discussed in the text depend on dissolving rock. If other such members exist, that
might suggest that the root structures can serve more functions than secreting
acids to dissolve rock (since dissolving rock may not be necessary for plants living
in soil), but that wouldn’t suggest anything about whether the species discussed
in the text benefit from dissolving rock. Choice B is incorrect because differences
in the proportions of citric and malic acid secreted by the two species would be
irrelevant to the hypothesis that the plants depend on dissolving rock. There’s no
information in the text to suggest that the proportion of each acid has any bearing
on the process of dissolving rock or on any benefits the plants might receive from
that process. Choice D is incorrect because if the two species thrive on rocks
without phosphates, that would weaken the researchers’ hypothesis that the plants
depend on dissolving rock partly because dissolving rock gives them access to
phosphates. If the plants can survive on rocks without getting a vital nutrient by
dissolving those rocks, then either the nutrient isn’t actually vital for those plants
or they can get the nutrient in some way other than by dissolving rocks.

17. Herbivorous sauropod dinosaurs could grow more
than 100 feet long and weigh up to 80 tons, and some
researchers have attributed the evolution of
sauropods to such massive sizes to increased plant
production resulting from high levels of atmospheric
carbon dioxide during the Mesozoic era. However,
there is no evidence of significant spikes in carbon
dioxide levels coinciding with relevant periods in
sauropod evolution, such as when the first large
sauropods appeared, when several sauropod lineages
underwent further evolution toward gigantism, or
when sauropods reached their maximum known
sizes, suggesting that _______ Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) fluctuations in atmospheric carbon dioxide
affected different sauropod lineages differently.
B) the evolution of larger body sizes in sauropods
did not depend on increased atmospheric carbon
dioxide.
C) atmospheric carbon dioxide was higher when the
largest known sauropods lived than it was when
the first sauropods appeared.
D) sauropods probably would not have evolved to
such immense sizes if atmospheric carbon
dioxide had been even slightly higher.

QUESTION 17
Choice B is the best answer because it presents the conclusion that most
logically follows from the text’s discussion of the relationship between
atmospheric carbon dioxide and sauropod body size. The text establishes that
sauropods evolved to reach enormous sizes, and it notes that some scientists
have asserted that the cause of this phenomenon was increased plant production
that resulted from increased atmospheric carbon dioxide. The text goes on to 
state, however, that atmospheric carbon dioxide levels didn’t increase around
the time of important periods in sauropods’ evolution of larger body sizes. If
significant periods of sauropod evolution toward larger sizes occurred without
increased atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, that suggests that the evolution of
larger sizes didn’t depend on increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
Choice A is incorrect because the text doesn’t describe any fluctuations in
atmospheric carbon dioxide, so there’s no evidence in the text to support the
conclusion that such fluctuations had different effects on different sauropod
lineages. All that the text says about atmospheric carbon dioxide levels is that
there weren’t increases at particular points that correspond with key moments in
sauropod evolution. Choice C is incorrect because the text indicates that there
weren’t significant increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide around the time of
important periods in sauropods’ evolution toward larger body sizes, not that
atmospheric carbon dioxide was higher when the largest sauropods lived than
when sauropods first appeared. Choice D is incorrect because the text indicates
that atmospheric carbon dioxide levels didn’t increase at important periods in
sauropod evolution, not that higher levels would have affected that evolution.
The text provides no information about how higher levels of atmospheric carbon
dioxide might have affected sauropods

18. In documents called judicial opinions, judges explain
the reasoning behind their legal rulings, and in those
explanations they sometimes cite and discuss
historical and contemporary philosophers. Legal
scholar and philosopher Anita L. Allen argues that
while judges are naturally inclined to mention
philosophers whose views align with their own
positions, the strongest judicial opinions consider
and rebut potential objections; discussing
philosophers whose views conflict with judges’ views
could therefore _______ Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) allow judges to craft judicial opinions without
needing to consult philosophical works.
B) help judges improve the arguments they put
forward in their judicial opinions.
C) make judicial opinions more comprehensible to
readers without legal or philosophical training.
D) bring judicial opinions in line with views that are
broadly held among philosophers. 

Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Anita Allen’s argument about judges citing philosophers in their
judicial opinions. The text indicates that judges sometimes cite philosophers
when writing their judicial opinions and that, according to Allen, judges tend to cite
philosophers whose views are in agreement with those of the judges themselves.
Allen claims, however, that the best judicial opinions consider potential objections
and rebut them, which suggests that judges may be able to strengthen their
opinions by including discussions of philosophers with views contrary to their own.
Choice A is incorrect because Allen’s claim is that judges could improve their
judicial opinions by citing philosophers who disagree with the views expressed
in the opinions, which would necessarily require judges to consult philosophical
works. Choice C is incorrect because there’s no discussion in the text about making
judicial opinions more easily understood by any particular group of readers. The
focus of the text is on Allen’s claim that judicial opinions could be strengthened
by the inclusion of discussions of philosophers whose views disagree with those
of the judges authoring the opinions. Choice D is incorrect because the text
presents Allen’s argument that discussing philosophers whose views judges
disagree with could strengthen judicial opinions, not that doing so could bring
those opinions into line with views that are popular among philosophers.

19. Public-awareness campaigns about the need to
reduce single-use plastics can be successful, says
researcher Kim Borg of Monash University in
Australia, when these campaigns give consumers a
choice: for example, Japan achieved a 40 percent
reduction in plastic-bag use after cashiers were
instructed to ask customers whether _______ wanted a bag.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) they
B) one
C) you
D) it 

QUESTION 19
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is pronoun-antecedent
agreement. The plural pronoun “they” agrees in number with the plural antecedent
“customers.”
Choice B is incorrect because the singular pronoun “one” doesn’t agree in number
with the plural antecedent “customers.” Choice C is incorrect because the
second person pronoun “you” isn’t conventional as a substitute for “customers.”
It suggests that the audience (“you”) is the customer. Choice D is incorrect
because the singular pronoun “it” doesn’t agree in number with the plural
antecedent “customers.”

20. In ancient Greece, an Epicurean was a follower of
Epicurus, a philosopher whose beliefs revolved
around the pursuit of pleasure. Epicurus defined
pleasure as “the absence of pain in the body and of
trouble in the _______ that all life’s virtues derived
from this absence.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) soul,” positing
B) soul”: positing
C) soul”; positing
D) soul.” Positing 

QUESTION 20
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is punctuation use
between a main clause and a participial phrase. This choice correctly uses a
comma to mark the boundary between the main clause (“Epicurus…‘soul’”) and
the participial phrase (“positing…absence”) that provides additional information
about how Epicurus defined pleasure.
Choice B is incorrect because a colon can’t be used in this way to join a main
clause and a participial phrase. Choice C is incorrect because a semicolon can’t
be used in this way to join a main clause and a participial phrase. Choice D is
incorrect because it results in a rhetorically unacceptable sentence fragment
beginning with “positing.” 

21. British scientists James Watson and Francis Crick
won the Nobel Prize in part for their 1953 paper
announcing the double helix structure of DNA, but it
is misleading to say that Watson and Crick
discovered the double helix. _______ findings were
based on a famous X-ray image of DNA fibers,
“Photo 51,” developed by X-ray crystallographer
Rosalind Franklin and her graduate student
Raymond Gosling.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) They’re
B) It’s
C) Their
D) Its

QUESTION 21
Choice C is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
possessive determiners. The plural possessive determiner “their” agrees in
number with the plural conjoined noun phrase “Watson and Crick” and thus
indicates that the findings were those of Watson and Crick.
Choice A is incorrect because “they’re” is the contraction for “they are,” not a
possessive determiner. Choice B is incorrect because “it’s” is the contraction
for “it is” or “it has,” not a possessive determiner. Choice D is incorrect because
the singular possessive determiner “its” doesn’t agree in number with the plural
conjoined noun phrase “Watson and Crick.”

22. In 1937, Chinese American screen actor Anna May
Wong, who had portrayed numerous villains and
secondary characters but never a heroine, finally got
a starring role in Paramount Pictures’ Daughter of
Shanghai, a film that _______ “expanded the range
of possibilities for Asian images on screen.”
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) critic, Stina Chyn, claims
B) critic, Stina Chyn, claims,
C) critic Stina Chyn claims
D) critic Stina Chyn, claims, 

QUESTION 22
Choice C is the best answer. The conventions being tested are punctuation use
between titles and proper nouns and between verbs and integrated quotations.
No punctuation is needed to set off the proper noun “Stina Chyn” from the title
that describes Chyn, “critic.” Because “Stina Chyn” is essential information
identifying the “critic,” no punctuation is necessary. Further, no punctuation
is needed between the verb “claims” and the following quotation because the
quotation is integrated into the structure of the sentence
Choice A is incorrect because no punctuation is needed before or after the
proper noun “Stina Chyn.” Setting the critic’s name off with commas suggests
that it could be removed without affecting the coherence of the sentence,
which isn’t the case. Choice B is incorrect because no punctuation is needed
before or after the proper noun “Stina Chyn.” Setting the critic’s name off with
commas suggests that it could be removed without affecting the coherence
of the sentence, which isn’t the case. Additionally, no punctuation is needed
between “claims” and the integrated quotation. Choice D is incorrect because
no punctuation is needed between the verb “claims” and its subject, “critic Stina
Chyn.” Additionally, no punctuation is needed between the verb “claims” and the
integrated quotation.

23. In 1637, the price of tulips skyrocketed in
Amsterdam, with single bulbs of rare varieties
selling for up to the equivalent of $200,000 in today’s
US dollars. Some historians _______ that this “tulip
mania” was the first historical instance of an asset
bubble, which occurs when investors drive prices to
highs not supported by actual demand.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) claiming
B) claim
C) having claimed
D) to claim 

QUESTION 23
Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of finite and
nonfinite verb forms within a sentence. A main clause requires a finite verb to
perform the action of the subject (in this case, “some historians”), and this choice
supplies the finite present tense verb “claim” to indicate what some historians do.
Choice A is incorrect because the nonfinite participle “claiming” doesn’t supply
the main clause with a finite verb. Choice C is incorrect because the nonfinite
participle “having claimed” doesn’t supply the main clause with a finite verb.
Choice D is incorrect because the nonfinite to-infinitive “to claim” doesn’t supply
the main clause with a finite verb.

24. Researchers studying magnetosensation have
determined why some soil-dwelling roundworms in
the Southern Hemisphere move in the opposite
direction of Earth’s magnetic field when searching
for _______ in the Northern Hemisphere, the
magnetic field points down, into the ground, but in
the Southern Hemisphere, it points up, toward the
surface and away from worms’ food sources.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) food:
B) food,
C) food while
D) food 

QUESTION 24
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is colon use within
a sentence. A colon used in this way introduces information that illustrates or
explains information that has come before it. In this case, the colon introduces
the following explanation of why some roundworms in the Southern Hemisphere
move in the opposite direction of Earth’s magnetic field.
Choice B is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. A comma can’t be
used in this way to join two long independent clauses (“Researchers…food”
and “in…sources”) such as these. Choice C is incorrect because it results in a
run-on sentence. The two clauses (“Researchers…food” and “in…sources”) are
fused without punctuation. Furthermore, the conjunction “while” fails to indicate
that what follows is an explanation of why some roundworms in the Southern
Hemisphere move in the opposite direction of Earth’s magnetic field. Choice D is
incorrect because it results in a run-on sentence. The two clauses (“Researchers…
food” and “in…sources”) are fused without punctuation and/or a conjunction.

25. Scientists believe that, unlike most other species of
barnacle, turtle barnacles (Chelonibia testudinari)
can dissolve the cement-like secretions they use to
attach _______ to a sea turtle shell, enabling the
barnacles to move short distances across the shell’s
surface.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) it
B) themselves
C) them
D) itself

QUESTION 25
Choice B is the best answer. The convention being tested is pronoun-antecedent
agreement. The plural reflexive pronoun “themselves” agrees in number with the
plural antecedent “turtle barnacles,” correctly indicating what is attached to a sea
turtle shell.
Choice A is incorrect because the singular pronoun “it” doesn’t agree in number
with the plural antecedent “turtle barnacles.” Choice C is incorrect because it
results in an unclear and confusing sentence. In this context, it’s unclear what
the plural pronoun “them” refers to. Choice D is incorrect because the singular
reflexive pronoun “itself” doesn’t agree in number with the plural antecedent
“turtle barnacles.”

26. The classic children’s board game Chutes and
Ladders is a version of an ancient Nepalese game,
Paramapada Sopanapata. In both games, players
encounter “good” or “bad” spaces while traveling
along a path; landing on one of the good spaces _______ a player to skip ahead and arrive closer to
the end goal.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) allows
B) are allowing
C) have allowed
D) allow 

QUESTION 26
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject–verb
agreement. The singular verb “allows” agrees in number with the singular subject
“landing.”
Choice B is incorrect because the plural verb “are allowing” doesn’t agree in
number with the singular subject “landing.” Choice C is incorrect because the
plural verb “have allowed” doesn’t agree in number with the singular subject
“landing.” Choice D is incorrect because the plural verb “allow” doesn’t agree in
number with the singular subject “landing.”

27. In 1943, in the midst of World War II, mathematics
professor Grace Hopper was recruited by the
US military to help the war effort by solving complex
equations. Hopper’s subsequent career would involve
more than just _______ as a pioneering computer
programmer, Hopper would help usher in the digital
age.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) equations, though:
B) equations, though,
C) equations. Though,
D) equations though 

QUESTION 27
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is the use of
punctuation to mark boundaries between supplements and clauses. The comma
after “equations” is used to separate the independent clause (“Hopper’s…
equation”) from the supplementary adverb phrase “though.” The colon after
“though” is used to mark the boundary between the clause ending with “though”
and the following clause (“as…age”). A colon used in this way introduces
information that illustrates or explains information that has come before it. In
this case, the colon after “though” introduces the following explanation of how
Hopper’s subsequent career would involve more than just solving equations: she
would become a pioneering computer programmer.
Choice B is incorrect because it results in a comma splice. A comma can’t be used
in this way to join two independent clauses (“Hopper’s…though” and “as…age”)
such as these. Choice C is incorrect because it results in an illogical sequence of
sentences. Placing the period after “equations” and beginning the next sentence
with “Though” illogically suggests that the following information (that Hopper
would help usher in the digital age) is contrary to the information in the previous
sentence (Hopper’s subsequent career would involve more than just solving
equations). Instead, the information that follows supports the information from
the previous sentence by explaining how her work and influence extended beyond
solely solving equations. Choice D is incorrect because it results in a run-on
sentence. The two independent clauses (“Hopper’s…though” and “as…age”) are
fused without punctuation. 

28. In 1453, English King Henry VI became unfit to rule
after falling gravely ill. As a result, Parliament
appointed Richard, Third Duke of York, who had a
strong claim to the English throne, to rule as Lord
Protector. Upon recovering two years later, _______ forcing an angered Richard from the royal court and
precipitating a series of battles later known as the
Wars of the Roses.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) Henry resumed his reign,
B) the reign of Henry resumed,
C) Henry’s reign resumed,
D) it was Henry who resumed his reign, 

QUESTION 28
Choice A is the best answer. The convention being tested is subject-modifier
placement. This choice ensures that the introductory phrase “upon recovering
two years later” appears immediately before the noun it modifies (“Henry”), clearly
establishing that Henry recovered two years later.
Choice B is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of
the noun phrase “the reign of Henry” immediately after the introductory phrase
illogically suggests that the reign of Henry recovered two years later. Choice C
is incorrect because it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of the noun
phrase “Henry’s reign” immediately after the introductory phrase illogically
suggests that Henry’s reign recovered two years later. Choice D is incorrect
because it results in a dangling modifier. The placement of the function word “it”
immediately after the introductory phrase illogically suggests that “it” recovered
two years later. 

29. Although novels and poems are considered distinct
literary forms, many authors have created hybrid
works that incorporate elements of both. Bernardine
Evaristo’s The Emperor's Babe, _______ is a verse
novel, a book-length narrative complete with
characters and a plot but conveyed in short, crisp
lines of poetry rather than prose.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) by contrast,
B) consequently,
C) secondly,
D) for example,

QUESTION 29
Choice D is the best answer. “For example” logically signals that the information
in this sentence—that The Emperor’s Babe is a novel conveyed in lines of
poetry—exemplifies the claim in the previous sentence about hybrid works that
incorporate elements of both novels and poems.
Choice A is incorrect because “by contrast” illogically signals that the information in
this sentence contrasts with the claim about hybrid works in the previous sentence.
Instead, the information demonstrates that Evaristo’s novel is an example of a
hybrid work. Choice B is incorrect because “consequently” illogically signals that
the information in this sentence is a consequence, or result, of the claim about
hybrid works in the previous sentence. Instead, the information demonstrates
that Evaristo’s novel is an example of a hybrid work. Choice C is incorrect because
“secondly” illogically signals that the information in this sentence is a second,
separate claim from the previous sentence’s claim about hybrid works. Instead, the
information demonstrates that Evaristo’s novel is an example of a hybrid work.

30. At two weeks old, the time their critical socialization
period begins, wolves can smell but cannot yet see or
hear. Domesticated dogs, _______ can see, hear, and
smell by the end of two weeks. This relative lack of
sensory input may help explain why wolves behave
so differently around humans than dogs do: from a
very young age, wolves are more wary and less
exploratory.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) in other words,
B) for instance,
C) by contrast,
D) accordingly, 

QUESTION 30
Choice C is the best answer. “By contrast” logically signals that the information
in this sentence—that dogs can see, hear, and smell by the end of two weeks—
contrasts with the preceding information (that wolves can smell but not see or
hear at the same age).
Choice A is incorrect because “in other words” illogically signals that the information
about domesticated dogs in this sentence paraphrases the information about
wolves in the previous sentence. Instead, the information about dogs contrasts with
what came before. Choice B is incorrect because “for instance” illogically signals
that the information about domesticated dogs in this sentence exemplifies the
information about wolves in the previous sentence. Instead, the information about
dogs contrasts with what came before. Choice D is incorrect because “accordingly”
illogically signals that the information about domesticated dogs in this sentence is
in accordance with, or results from, the information about wolves in the previous
sentence. Instead, the information about dogs contrasts with what came before.

31. Researchers Helena Mihaljević-Brandt, Lucía
Santamaría, and Marco Tullney report that while
mathematicians may have traditionally worked
alone, evidence points to a shift in the opposite
direction. _______ mathematicians are choosing to
collaborate with their peers—a trend illustrated by a
rise in the number of mathematics publications
credited to multiple authors.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) Similarly,
B) For this reason,
C) Furthermore,
D) Increasingly,

Choice D is the best answer. “Increasingly” logically signals that the claim in
this sentence—that mathematicians are collaborating with their peers—marks
a change relative to what was traditionally done. As the previous sentence
explains, while mathematicians may have traditionally worked alone, evidence
points to a shift in the opposite direction. The claim describes the shift: a rise in
collaboration.
Choice A is incorrect because “similarly” illogically signals that the claim in
this sentence is similar to, but separate from, the previous claim about the
shift away from mathematicians working alone. Instead, the claim about the
rise in collaboration elaborates on the previous claim, describing the shift.
Choice B is incorrect because “for this reason” illogically signals that the claim
in this sentence is caused by the previous claim about the shift away from
mathematicians working alone. Instead, the claim about the rise in collaboration
elaborates on the previous claim, describing the shift. Choice C is incorrect
because “furthermore” illogically signals that the claim in this sentence is in
addition to the previous claim about the shift away from mathematicians working
alone. Instead, the claim about the rise in collaboration elaborates on the previous
claim, describing the shift.

32. While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes: • Pterosaurs were flying reptiles that existed
millions of years ago. • In a 2021 study, Anusuya Chinsamy-Turan
analyzed fragments of pterosaur jawbones located
in the Sahara Desert. • She was initially unsure if the bones belonged to
juvenile or adult pterosaurs. • She used advanced microscope techniques to
determine that the bones had few growth lines
relative to the bones of fully grown pterosaurs. • She concluded that the bones belonged to
juveniles.
The student wants to present the study and its
findings. Which choice most effectively uses relevant
information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A) In 2021, Chinsamy-Turan studied pterosaur
jawbones and was initially unsure if the bones
belonged to juveniles or adults.
B) Pterosaur jawbones located in the Sahara Desert
were the focus of a 2021 study.
C) In a 2021 study, Chinsamy-Turan used advanced
microscope techniques to analyze the jawbones
of pterosaurs, flying reptiles that existed millions
of years ago.
D) In a 2021 study, Chinsamy-Turan determined
that pterosaur jawbones located in the Sahara
Desert had few growth lines relative to the bones
of fully grown pterosaurs and thus belonged to
juveniles. 

QUESTION 32
Choice D is the best answer. The sentence presents both the study and its
findings, noting the study’s date and the researcher’s name as well as describing
what the researcher determined about the jawbones and how she determined it.
Choice A is incorrect. While the sentence describes the study and the
researcher’s initial assessment, it doesn’t present the study’s findings. Choice B is
incorrect. While the sentence describes the study and its focus, it doesn’t present
the study’s findings or the name of the researcher who conducted it. Choice C is
incorrect. While the sentence mentions the study’s methodology and provides
information about pterosaurs, it doesn’t present the study’s findings.


33. While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes: • African American women played prominent roles
in the Civil Rights Movement, including at the
famous 1963 March on Washington. • Civil rights activist Anna Hedgeman, one of the
march’s organizers, was a political adviser who
had worked for President Truman. • Civil rights activist Daisy Bates was a well-known
journalist and advocate for school desegregation. • Hedgeman worked behind the scenes to make
sure a woman was included in the lineup of
speakers at the march. • Bates was the sole woman to speak, delivering a
brief but memorable address to the cheering
crowd.
The student wants to compare the two women’s
contributions to the March on Washington. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information
from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A) Hedgeman and Bates contributed to the march
in different ways; Bates, for example, delivered a
brief but memorable address.
B) Hedgeman worked in politics and helped
organize the march, while Bates was a journalist
and school desegregation advocate.
C) Although Hedgeman worked behind the scenes
to make sure a woman speaker was included,
Bates was the sole woman to speak at the march.
D) Many African American women, including Bates
and Hedgeman, fought for civil rights, but only
one spoke at the march. 

Choice C is the best answer. The sentence compares the two women’s
contributions to the march: Hedgeman worked behind the scenes to make sure a
woman speaker was included, whereas Bates actually spoke at the event.
Choice A is incorrect. While it acknowledges that the two women both
contributed to the march, it doesn’t indicate what Hedgeman did, so no
comparison is made. Choice B is incorrect. While the sentence provides
information about the two women, it doesn’t mention anything about Bates’s
contribution to the march. Choice D is incorrect. While the sentence indicates
that the two women both fought for civil rights, it doesn’t compare their individual
contributions to the march.

For painter Jacob Lawrence, being _______ was an
important part of the artistic process. Because he
paid close attention to all the details of his Harlem
neighborhood, Lawrence’s artwork captured nuances
in the beauty and vitality of the Black experience
during the Harlem Renaissance and the
Great Migration.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) skeptical
B) observant
C) critical
D) confident 

QUESTION 1
Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Jacob Lawrence’s artistic process. In this context, “observant”
means watchful and perceptive. The text emphasizes that the “close attention”
Lawrence paid to “all the details” of his neighborhood allowed him to reflect subtle
elements of “the beauty and vitality of the Black experience” in his artwork. This
context indicates that being observant of his surroundings was an important part
of Lawrence’s work as an artist.
Choice A is incorrect because the text gives no indication that Lawrence was
“skeptical,” or had an attitude of doubt in general or about particular things, let
alone that skepticism was important to him as an artist. Rather than indicating
that he was skeptical, the text focuses on how Lawrence paid careful attention
to everything around him and reflected his observations in his artwork. Choice C
is incorrect because the text gives no indication that Lawrence was “critical,”
which in this context would mean inclined to criticize harshly or unfairly. Rather
than indicating that Lawrence found fault in things, the text suggests that he
paid careful attention to everything around him and that his artwork reflects this
careful attention. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn’t suggest that
Lawrence was “confident,” or self-assured. Rather than addressing how Lawrence
felt about himself and how that feeling affected his artistic process, the text
emphasizes the careful attention Lawrence paid to everything around him—
attention that allowed him to capture subtle elements of a particular place and
time in his artwork.

Mônica Lopes-Ferreira and others at Brazil’s
Butantan Institute are studying the freshwater
stingray species Potamotrygon rex to determine
whether biological characteristics such as the rays’
age and sex have _______ effect on the toxicity of
their venom—that is, to see if differences in these
traits are associated with considerable variations in
venom potency.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) a disconcerting
B) an acceptable
C) an imperceptible
D) a substantial

QUESTION 2
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of the research that Lopes-Ferreira and her colleagues are conducting
on the stingray species Potamotrygon rex. As used in this context, “a substantial”
effect means an effect that is sizable or noteworthy. The text indicates that the
researchers are seeking to determine whether there are “considerable variations”
in the potency of stingray venom that are associated with variation in the
stingrays’ age and sex. This context suggests that the researchers want to find
out whether stingray age and sex have a substantial effect on venom toxicity.
Choice A is incorrect because there’s nothing in the text that suggests that the
researchers have been studying whether the stingrays’ age and sex have “a
disconcerting,” or an unsettling and disturbing, effect on the stingrays’ venom.
The text indicates that the researchers wish to determine if stingray age and
sex cause large variations in the toxicity of stingray venom, not if the effect of
age and sex is disconcerting. Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates
that researchers want to find out whether differences in stingray age and sex
produce differences in stingray venom, not that the researchers want to find out
whether age and sex have “an acceptable,” or a satisfactory, effect on venom.
The text makes no mention of what would make an effect on venom toxicity
acceptable and gives no indication that the researchers are interested in that
question. Choice C is incorrect because it wouldn’t make sense in context for the
researchers to be looking for “an imperceptible,” or an unnoticeable, effect of
age and sex on stingray venom. The text says that the researchers are trying to
determine if there are “considerable variations” in venom toxicity linked to age and
sex, not that the researchers are trying to find effects that they can’t perceive.

Researchers have struggled to pinpoint specific
causes for hiccups, which happen when a
person’s diaphragm contracts _______ . However,
neuroscientist Kimberley Whitehead has found that
these uncontrollable contractions may play an
important role in helping infants regulate their
breathing.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) involuntarily
B) beneficially
C) strenuously
D) smoothly 

QUESTION 3
Choice A is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of diaphragm contractions and hiccups. In this context, “involuntarily”
means done without any control, or by reflex. The text explains that when a
person’s diaphragm repeatedly contracts and results in hiccups (which may be
beneficial for infants), those muscle contractions are “uncontrollable.” This context
indicates that the diaphragm contractions occur without the person’s control.
Choice B is incorrect because it wouldn’t support the logical relationship
established in the text’s discussion of diaphragm contractions and hiccups.
The text indicates that although specific causes for hiccups haven’t been
identified, it may be the case that the muscle contractions that occur have an
important purpose in infants. It wouldn’t make sense to say that even though
the contractions occur “beneficially,” or with a good or helpful effect, they might
play a positive role in infants’ breathing regulation. Choice C is incorrect because
the text indicates that the diaphragm contractions that result in hiccups are
“uncontrollable.” Because those muscle contractions are described as happening
automatically and without the person’s control, it wouldn’t make sense to describe them as occurring “strenuously,” or in a way that requires great effort
or energy. Choice D is incorrect because the text doesn’t describe the quality of
the diaphragm contractions that result in hiccups beyond stating that they are
“uncontrollable.” Nothing in the text indicates that those muscle contractions
occur “smoothly,” or evenly and continuously

Critics have asserted that fine art and fashion rarely _______ in a world where artists create timeless
works for exhibition and designers periodically
produce new styles for the public to buy. Luiseño/
Shoshone-Bannock beadwork artist and designer
Jamie Okuma challenges this view: her work can be
seen in the Metropolitan Museum of Art and
purchased through her online boutique.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) prevail
B) succumb
C) diverge
D) intersect 

QUESTION 4
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion about the relationship between fine art and fashion. As used in this
context, “intersect” means to connect or overlap. The text indicates that Jamie
Okuma challenges the position held by critics because her work can be seen
at an art museum and can be bought by the public from her online boutique.
The text also presents the critics’ view as being influenced by a perception that
fine artists create works that are “timeless” and meant for exhibition, whereas
fashion designers periodically produce new styles that are meant for purchase.
This context suggests that the critics believe that fine art and fashion tend not to
overlap—in other words, that they rarely intersect.
Choice A is incorrect because it wouldn’t make sense in context to say that
critics contend that fine art and fashion rarely “prevail,” or prove to be triumphant
or widespread. The text indicates that Okuma is an example of an artist who
demonstrates that it’s possible to make fine art that is also available to the public
as fashion. Choice B is incorrect because it wouldn’t make sense in context to
say that fine art and fashion rarely “succumb,” or surrender. The text establishes
that unlike what critics believe, Okuma creates works that are in art museums
and available for the public to purchase, suggesting that critics believe fine art
and fashion rarely overlap, not that they rarely succumb. Choice C is incorrect
because saying that critics believe that fine art and fashion rarely “diverge,” or
disagree or move in different directions, wouldn’t make sense in context. The text
presents Okuma’s work as both fine art and fashion, thereby undermining what
the critics assert. This suggests that the critics believe that fine art and fashion
rarely intersect rather than that the two rarely diverge.

Scholarly discussions of gender in Shakespeare’s
comedies often celebrate the rebellion of the
playwright’s characters against the rigid expectations _______ by Elizabethan society. Most of the
comedies end in marriage, with characters returning
to their socially dictated gender roles after previously
defying them, but there are some notable exceptions.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) interjected
B) committed
C) illustrated
D) prescribed 

QUESTION 5
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of gender roles in Shakespeare’s comedies. As used in this context,
“prescribed” would mean laid down as rules. The text indicates that the characters
in the comedies often defy gender roles that are “socially dictated” (even if most
characters do return to those roles eventually) and that scholars have been
very interested in these acts of defiance. This context indicates that what the
characters are rebelling against are standards of behavior prescribed by the
society of the time.

Choice A is incorrect because saying that expectations about gender were
“interjected,” or suddenly inserted between other things, wouldn’t make sense
in context. There’s no suggestion in the text that the issue of gender roles was
inserted between other things or was an interruption in a larger discussion.
Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that Shakespeare depicts
characters rebelling against expectations about gender that have been
“socially dictated,” not expectations that society has “committed,” or carried out,
entrusted, or promised. Choice C is incorrect because the text indicates that
Shakespeare depicts characters rebelling against expectations about gender
that have been “socially dictated,” not expectations that have been “illustrated,”
or clarified with examples. Although it’s possible for expectations about gender
roles to be illustrated, there’s nothing in the text to indicate that characters in
Shakespeare’s comedies rebel against illustrations of gender expectations.

In studying the use of external stimuli to reduce the
itching sensation caused by an allergic histamine
response, Louise Ward and colleagues found that
while harmless applications of vibration or warming
can provide a temporary distraction, such _______ stimuli actually offer less relief than a stimulus that
seems less benign, like a mild electric shock.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) deceptive
B) innocuous
C) novel
D) impractical 

QUESTION 6
Choice B is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of Ward and colleagues’ findings. As used in this context, “innocuous”
means mild or unharmful. The text describes the vibration and warming that Ward
and colleagues used to alleviate itching as “harmless applications” and goes on to
contrast these applications with another stimulus that actually offers more relief
even though it seems to be stronger and “less benign.” This context conveys the
idea that vibration and warming were innocuous stimuli.
Choice A is incorrect because the text focuses on a distinction between harmless
stimuli and those that seem to be less benign. Nothing in the text suggests
that any of the treatments are “deceptive,” or misleading; indeed, even the
less effective ones are described as offering some relief. Choice C is incorrect
because the text focuses on the amount of relief from itching offered by harmless
stimuli and those that seem to be less benign. The text doesn’t suggest that any
of these stimuli are “novel,” or original and new; heat, vibration, and electricity
aren’t new inventions. Choice D is incorrect because it wouldn’t make sense to
describe an application of vibration or warming as “impractical,” or not suitable
for use. The text indicates that these harmless applications are useful in that they
offer at least some temporary relief.

The province of Xoconochco was situated on the
Pacific coast, hundreds of kilometers southeast of
Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec Empire.
Because Xoconochco’s location within the empire
was so _______ , cacao and other trade goods
produced there could reach the capital only after a
long overland journey.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) unobtrusive
B) concealed
C) approximate
D) peripheral

QUESTION 7
Choice D is the best answer because it most logically completes the text’s
discussion of the location of the province of Xoconochco within the Aztec Empire.
As used in this context, “peripheral” means situated toward the outer bounds
rather than the center. The text indicates that Xoconochco was located on a
coast, hundreds of kilometers away from the capital of the Aztec Empire. The
text also states that trade between the province and the capital required “a long
overland journey.” This context suggests that Xoconochco was situated toward
an edge of the empire’s territory rather than near its center.

Choice A is incorrect because it wouldn’t make sense in context to refer to
Xoconochco’s location within the Aztec Empire as “unobtrusive,” or not blatant
or undesirably prominent; it’s not clear how a province’s physical location would
or wouldn’t be blatant. Instead of focusing on how noticeable Xoconochco’s
location was, the text emphasizes the province’s distance from the capital of the
empire, pointing out that because of this distance trade between the two required
“a long overland journey.” Choice B is incorrect because the text indicates that
the province of Xoconochco was located on a coast far from the capital of the
Aztec Empire, not that it was “concealed,” or kept out of sight or hidden from
view. Nothing in the text suggests that Xoconochco was actually hidden such
that people couldn’t see it, and being hidden wouldn’t necessarily result in trade
between the province and the capital requiring “a long overland journey.” Choice C
is incorrect because to say that Xoconochco’s location within the Aztec Empire
was “approximate” would mean that the location either wasn’t precisely correct or
was close to some other location. Neither of these meanings would make sense
in context because the text indicates that Xoconochco’s location is known and
that it was far from the empire’s capital, so there’s no reason to characterize the
location as either not precisely correct or close to another location.

The following text is from Charlotte Brontë’s 1847
novel Jane Eyre. Jane works as a governess at
Thornfield Hall.
I went on with my day’s business tranquilly; but
ever and anon vague suggestions kept wandering
across my brain of reasons why I should quit
Thornfield; and I kept involuntarily framing
advertisements and pondering conjectures about
new situations: these thoughts I did not think to
check; they might germinate and bear fruit if
they could.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A) To convey a contrast between Jane’s outward
calmness and internal restlessness
B) To emphasize Jane’s loyalty to the people she
works for at Thornfield Hall
C) To demonstrate that Jane finds her situation
both challenging and deeply fulfilling
D) To describe Jane’s determination to secure
employment outside of Thornfield Hall


QUESTION 8
Choice A is the best answer because it most accurately describes the main
purpose of the text, which is to show that while Jane calmly goes about her daily
tasks, she is experiencing internal agitation about possibly seeking a new job.
At the start of the text, Jane says, “I went on with my day’s business tranquilly,”
indicating that she is outwardly calm. This outward calmness is then contrasted
with her intense internal restlessness, as Jane says that thoughts of leaving her job
keep running through her mind, that she is “involuntarily framing advertisements”
(meaning that she can’t stop herself from thinking up potential listings for jobs),
and that she often wonders what new “situations” (or jobs) would be like.
Choice B is incorrect because the text gives no indication of Jane’s feelings,
either positive or negative, about the people she works for at Thornfield Hall.
And rather than emphasizing that Jane feels particularly loyal to her employers,
the text focuses on her constant consideration of leaving her job. Choice C is
incorrect because the text gives no indication that Jane finds her current situation
fulfilling, or satisfying. Given that much of the text is focused on Jane’s thoughts
about possibly leaving her job for a new one, it might be the case that she finds
her situation challenging, but there is no evidence in the text that Jane also finds
that situation satisfying—she says nothing positive about her current job at all, in
fact. Choice D is incorrect because the text describes Jane as wondering about
getting a new job, not as determined to definitely do so. Jane keeps thinking
about reasons why she “should” quit her current job (indicating that she hasn’t yet
decided to) and imagining possible new situations she could find, but she says
at the end of the text that these thoughts “might germinate and bear fruit if they
could,” meaning that the thoughts haven’t yet led to a decision—that Jane isn’t
yet determined to get a new job somewhere else.


The following contain two texts for you to analyse and choose from:
Text 1
Most animals can regenerate some parts of their
bodies, such as skin. But when a three-banded
panther worm is cut into three pieces, each piece
grows into a new worm. Researchers are
investigating this feat partly to learn more about
humans’ comparatively limited abilities to
regenerate, and they’re making exciting progress. An
especially promising discovery is that both humans
and panther worms have a gene for early growth
response (EGR) linked to regeneration.
Text 2
When Mansi Srivastava and her team reported that
panther worms, like humans, possess a gene for EGR,
it caused excitement. However, as the team pointed
out, the gene likely functions very differently in
humans than it does in panther worms. Srivastava
has likened EGR to a switch that activates other
genes involved in regeneration in panther worms,
but how this switch operates in humans remains
unclear.
Based on the texts, what would the author of Text 2
most likely say about Text 1’s characterization of the
discovery involving EGR?
A) It is reasonable given that Srivastava and her
team have identified how EGR functions in both
humans and panther worms.
B) It is overly optimistic given additional
observations from Srivastava and her team.
C) It is unexpected given that Srivastava and her
team’s findings were generally met with
enthusiasm.
D) It is unfairly dismissive given the progress that
Srivastava and her team have reported. 


QUESTION 9
Choice B is the best answer because it reflects how the author of Text 2
would most likely respond to Text 1 based on the information provided. Text 1
discusses the discovery of a regeneration-linked gene, EGR, in both threebanded panther worms (which are capable of full regeneration) and humans (who
have relatively limited regeneration abilities). Text 1 characterizes this discovery
as “especially promising” and a sign of “exciting progress” in understanding
human regeneration. The author of Text 2, on the other hand, focuses on the
fact that the team that reported the EGR finding pointed out that while EGR’s
function in humans isn’t yet known, it’s likely very different from its function in
panther worms. Therefore, the author of Text 2 would most likely say that Text 1’s
enthusiasm about the EGR discovery is overly optimistic given Srivastava’s team’s
observations about EGR in humans.
Choice A is incorrect because the author of Text 2 explains that Srivastava and
her team explicitly reported that they haven’t yet identified how EGR functions
in humans; therefore, the author of Text 2 wouldn’t say that Text 1’s excitement
is reasonable for the stated reason. Instead, the author of Text 2 would likely
characterize Text 1’s excitement as premature and overly optimistic. Choice C is
incorrect because Text 1 does treat Srivastava’s team’s findings with enthusiasm;
it describes the discovery of EGR in both three-banded panther worms and
humans as promising and exciting. It would be illogical for the author of Text 2
to say that because most others treat the discovery with enthusiasm, Text 1’s
enthusiastic characterization of the discovery is unexpected. Choice D is
incorrect because Text 1 isn’t at all dismissive of Srivastava’s team’s findings;
instead, Text 1 is optimistic about the EGR discovery, characterizing it as
promising and exciting. There’s nothing in Text 2 to suggest that the author of
Text 2 would say that Text 1’s praise for the discovery is dismissive, or disdainful.


The following text is adapted from William
Shakespeare’s 1609 poem “Sonnet 27.” The poem is
addressed to a close friend as if he were physically
present.
Weary with toil, I [hurry] to my bed,
The dear repose for limbs with travel tired;
But then begins a journey in my head
To work my mind, when body’s work’s expired:
For then my thoughts—from far where I abide—
[Begin] a zealous pilgrimage to thee,
And keep my drooping eyelids open wide,
What is the main idea of the text?
A) The speaker is asleep and dreaming about
traveling to see the friend.
B) The speaker is planning an upcoming trip to the
friend’s house.
C) The speaker is too fatigued to continue a
discussion with the friend.
D) The speaker is thinking about the friend instead
of immediately falling asleep

QUESTION 10
Choice D is the best answer because it most accurately states the main idea of
the text. The speaker describes the experience of being “weary” and “tired” and
going to bed to seek “dear repose” (that is, sleep), but instead of sleeping, the
speaker is kept awake (“keep my drooping eyelids open wide”) by thoughts of a
friend (“my thoughts... [Begin] a zealous pilgrimage to thee”).
Choice A is incorrect because the text makes it clear that the speaker isn’t asleep;
thoughts about the friend are keeping the speaker awake (“keep my drooping
eyelids open wide”). Choice B is incorrect because the speaker isn’t talking about
taking a literal trip when referring to “a zealous pilgrimage.” Rather, the speaker is
referring to the experience of thinking about the friend, of taking “a journey in my
head.” Choice C is incorrect because the text indicates that the speaker and the
friend aren’t in the same place and having a conversation. Rather, the speaker is at
home and thinking of the friend, who is somewhere else (“from far where I abide”).


The following text is adapted from Lewis Carroll’s
1889 satirical novel Sylvie and Bruno. A crowd has
gathered outside a room belonging to the Warden,
an official who reports to the Lord Chancellor.
One man, who was more excited than the rest,
flung his hat high into the air, and shouted (as
well as I could make out) “Who roar for the
Sub-Warden?” Everybody roared, but whether it
was for the Sub-Warden, or not, did not clearly
appear: some were shouting “Bread!” and some
“Taxes!”, but no one seemed to know what it was
they really wanted.
All this I saw from the open window of the
Warden’s breakfast-saloon, looking across the
shoulder of the Lord Chancellor.
“What can it all mean?” he kept repeating to
himself. “I never heard such shouting
before—and at this time of the morning, too!
And with such unanimity!”
Based on the text, how does the Lord Chancellor
respond to the crowd?
A) He asks about the meaning of the crowd’s
shouting, even though he claims to know what
the crowd wants.
B) He indicates a desire to speak to the crowd, even
though the crowd has asked to speak to the
Sub-Warden.
C) He expresses sympathy for the crowd’s demands,
even though the crowd’s shouting annoys him.
D) He describes the crowd as being united, even
though the crowd clearly appears otherwise. 

QUESTION 11
Choice D is the best answer because it presents a statement about how the Lord
Chancellor responds to the crowd that is supported by the text. The text indicates
that the people in the crowd are roaring and shouting “Bread!” or “Taxes!” and
presents them as not knowing what they really want. The Lord Chancellor’s
response is to ask what their shouting means but also to observe that they’re
shouting with “unanimity,” or total agreement. Clearly, this isn’t the case, which
supports the statement that the Lord Chancellor describes the crowd as being
united even though it’s not.
Choice A is incorrect because it isn’t supported by the text. Although the text
indicates that the Lord Chancellor asks about the meaning of the crowd’s
shouting, it doesn’t suggest that he knows what the crowd really wants. Choice B
is incorrect because the text doesn’t suggest that the Lord Chancellor wants
to speak to the crowd. Furthermore, the text doesn’t indicate that the crowd
wants to hear from the Sub-Warden. Although the crowd roars when asked
“Who roar for the Sub-Warden?” it’s unclear what the roaring means. Choice C is
incorrect because the text doesn’t suggest that the Lord Chancellor knows of or
sympathizes with the crowd’s demands. In addition, the text doesn’t indicate that
the crowd’s shouting annoys the Lord Chancellor, just that it causes him to keep
repeating “What can it all mean?”